Directory contents

 tarai1.lisp   The function Fb satisfies the tarai recursion and 
               the restricted tarai recursion for lists of length 
               2-5.
 tarai2.lisp   The function Fb satisfies the tarai recursion and 
               the restricted tarai recursion for lists of length
               6.
 tarai3.lisp   The function Fb satisfies the restricted tarai 
               recursion for lists of length 7.
 tarai4.lisp   The function Fb satisfies the tarai recursion for 
               lists of length 7.
 tarai5.lisp   The function Fb satisfies the tarai recursion and 
               the restricted tarai recursion for lists of lengths
               between 2 and 7. This book summarizes books 
               tarai1-tarai4.
 tarai6.lisp   Any total function from integer lists to integers 
               that satisfies the tarai recursion must equal the 
               function Fb for lists of length 2-5.
rTarai6.lisp   Any total function on integer lists that satisfies
               the restricted tarai recursion must equal the 
               function Fb for lists of lengths 2-5.
 tarai7.lisp   Any total function from integer lists to integers 
               that satisfies the tarai recursion must equal the 
               function Fb for lists of length 6.
rTarai7.lisp   Any total function on integer lists that satisfies
               the restricted tarai recursion must equal the 
               function Fb for lists of length 6.
 tarai8.lisp   Any total function from integer lists to integers 
               that satisfies the tarai recursion must equal the 
               function Fb for lists of length 7.
rTarai8.lisp   Any total function on integer lists that satisfies 
               the restricted tarai recursion must equal the 
               function Fb for lists of lengths 2-7.
 tarai9.lisp   Any total function from integer lists to integers 
               that satisfies the tarai recursion must equal the 
               function Fb for lists of lengths 2-7. This book 
               summarizes books tarai6-tarai8.
rTarai9.lisp   The recursive calls, specified in the definition of
               the restricted tarai recursion, terminate for lists
               of integers of lengths 2-7.
 tarai10.lisp  These implementations of Knuth's and Bailey's 
               versions of the f function for Knuth's theorem 4 
               compute the same results for all true lists of
               lengths 0-4 and for all lists of integers of length
               5. An example is provided showing there are lists 
               of integers of length 6 for which the two functions
               compute different results.
 tarai11.lisp  These are implementations of Knuth's (original and 
               revised) and Bailey's versions of the f function 
               for Knuth's theorem 4. For lists of integers, the 
               revised Knuth and Bailey versions compute the same 
               values.

