The subdirectories correspond to chapters in "Computer Aided Reasoning: ACL2
Case Studies," ed. M. Kaufmann, P. Manolios, and J S. Moore, Kluwer Academic
Publishers, 2000.

On a Unix-like system, you can certify the books in all subdirectories by
typing make in the present directory, assuming that the present directory is
the books/case-studies/ subdirectory of an ACL2 distribution.  (Exceptions: see
the README files in the ACL2(r) studies in calculus/ and analysis/.)  Each
individual case study's set of books is independent of books in the other case
studies, and can be certified by typing make in its subdirectory, or by
following instructions in its README file.  Books whose certification is
up-to-date will not be re-certified by typing make, but executing "make clean"
on Unix-like systems will remove all evidence of previous certification.


Subdirectory	Authors			Chapter / Title
------------	-------        		---------------

graph		J Moore			5. An Exercise in Graph Theory

calculus	Matt Kaufmann		6. Modular Proof: The Fundamental
					   Theorem of Calculus

mu-calculus	Panagiotis Manolios	7. Mu-Calculus Model-Checking

simulator	David Greve,		8. High-Speed, Analyzable Simulators
		Matthew Wilding,
		David Hardin

pipeline	Jun Sawada		9. Verification of a Simple Pipelined
					   Machine Model

de-hdl		Warren Hunt, Jr.	10. The DE Language

vhdl		Dominique Borrione,	11. Using macros to mimic VHDL
		Philippe Georgelin,
		Vanderlei Rodrigues

ste		Damir A. Jamsek		12. Symbolic Trajectory Evaluation

multiplier	David M. Russinoff,	13. RTL Verification: 
		Arthur Flatau		    A Floating-Point Multiplier

embedded	Piergiorgio Bertoli,	14. Design Verification of a
		Paolo Traverso		    Safety-Critical Embedded Verifier

compiler	Wolfgang Goerigk	15. Compiler Verification Revisited

ivy		William McCune,		16. Ivy: A Preprocessor and Proof Checker
		Olga Shumsky                for First-Order Logic

knuth-91	John Cowles		17. Knuth's Generalization of
                                            McCarthy's 91 Function

analysis	Ruben Gamboa		18. Continuity and Differentiability
