This directory contains solutions for exercises in Chapter 6 of

 Computer-Aided Reasoning:  An Approach, by Kaufmann, Manolios, and Moore,
 Kluwer Academic Publishers, June, 2000.

See books/textbook/README for a guide to all solutions and general
information.

The following files (or extensions) may be present on this directory.

README     - guide to contents of the directory
Makefile   - Unix file for recertifying the ACL2 books on the directory
             (present on all but chap7, which contains no books)

*.lisp     - certifiable ACL2 book containing solutions to exercises
*.txt      - solutions to exercises not amenable to ACL2 formulation
*.acl2     - driver used by Makefile to recertify some *.lisp files

*.cert     - certificate indicating that *.lisp has been certified
*.date     - date of beginning of recertification run
*.log      - output of make
*.out      - output produced by ACL2 during certification
*.o        - compiled version of *.lisp file in some Common Lisps
*.fasl     - compiled version of *.lisp file in some Common Lisps

Any file with the extension ``.lisp'' is a certifiable book that can
be included into your ACL2 session with include-book.

To recertify all the books, stand in this directory and type make.

Location of Solutions to Particular Exercises

Many of the exercises in Chapter 6 require you to present formal
proofs in terms of the primitive rules of inference or require set
theoretic or other metatheoretic arguments.  Such exercises do not
readily admit solutions expressed as ACL2 commands.

However, a few of the exercises do admit solution with ACL2, even
though you -- the reader -- are not actually expected to do them this
way.  Indeed, upon your first reading of Chapter 6, you will probably
not be able to use the theorem prover well enough to do these proofs.
But you might eventually return to these exercises with the theorem
prover behind you and appreciate these solutions.



   6 The Logic
     Exercises 6.1 - 6.25 with pencil and paper:
       chap6/solutions.txt

     Exercises 6.3, 6.4, 6.6 - 6.8, 6.11 - 6.16 with ACL2:
       chap6/selected-solutions.lisp


